# septa-jawn


## The problem
I regularly need to commute to my office in Center City. I live right next to a bus stop and have a very good view of the stop from many windows in my apartment. Every 10 minutes, a bus on either the 7, 48, or 49 routes will roll past and I will hear the bus screech to a stop and hiss to lower to ground level so very old and very young people can enter. Lately, I've been waking up and getting ready to commute without checking the bus schedule beforehand. So I'll pack my bag up and be ready to go, and sometimes have to wait 10 or 15 minutes in the summer heat waiting for the bus. Also, for some reason lately, every time I find the need to get on the bus to go somewhere, I look outside the window, and the bus that I need is already there, and even if I ran, I would not make it to the bus on time, since I live on the 3rd floor. Of course, I can use an app like Transit or Google Maps to check when the next stop is, but there are some barriers to doing so. 

First, the friction of opening up an app and searching for the route from point A to B in Google Maps is overwhelming. The steps involved are, in order: hold touch sensor to wake up the phone, optional swipe up from bottom to reach my home screen, swipe up from bottom to reach the app drawer, hunt for the correct maps icon, press the maps icon, optional reset to the home page of maps, press the sarch bar, type in your destination, press the public transit option, hunt through the list of bus options for your desired ride. Just these steps don't mention the horrific UX experience of trying to decipher the heiroglyphics of a  Google Maps result, or the similarly horrific graphic design terrorism perpretrated by probably the selfsame UX designers in San Fransico or Seattle or maybe Bangalore who thought it was a good idea to make the app icons for maps, photos, podcasts and email so similar that instead of relying on my own eyes' tendency to be attracted to catchy, iconic design to find the app, I must hunt and peck for the icon based entirely on finger memory related to where the first letter of the app's name falls in the order of letters in the English alphabet, how many apps I have at the time, how large I have set the app icons, and how many apps icons of that size can fit in one page of the app drawer, which is inexplicably paginated. 

I could use the Transit app, the graphic design of which is relatively cleaner and more accesible, to view just the routes and how many minutes away they are, but about roughly half of the same  mental drain still exists in that scenario. 


	Second, and perhaps more spiritually important, I wish to start my days as technology free as possible. I don't want to wake up and immediately start scrolling. I want to start my days early, refreshed, and with some tea, and definitely NOT the news. Opening my phone and executing those steps as laid out by those depraved user experience "designers" in Mountain View, or Austin or maybe even Seoul is simply just not what people have done for millions of years to get from place to place. I want my technology to work for me, silently, stylishly, effortlessly and undemandingly. Instead we have user experiences which are loud, ugly, difficult, and demanding. I am not a luddite and I don't want to live exactly as they did for millions of years. But I want a better way to see how far away the buses are for my routes of choice. So 

## The solution
There are a few routes that are most relevant to me: the 48 (to get to work), the 49 (to get to the train station), the 7 (to get to South Philly) and the 15 (to get to Fishtown). I will fetch the location of all the buses that are currently on those routes using the SEPTA API, calculate the closest ones to me using their latitude and longitude, calculate how far away they are in minutes, and display all of them on my Ikea OBEGRÄNSAD LED wall lamp, which I will convert to a smart display and upload this software to. 
